Datastore refdoc cleanup and update (#1179)
spring-cloud/spring-cloud-gcp: spring-cloud-gcp-docs/src/main/asciidoc/datastore.adoc

}
----

===== Read with offsets, limits, and sorting

> `DatastoreRepository` and custom defined entitiy repositories implement Spring Data's `PagingAndSortingRepository`, which supports offsets and limits using page numbers and page sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DatastoreRepository` and custom-defined entitiy repositories implement the Spring Data `PagingAndSortingRepository`, which supports offsets and limits using page numbers and page sizes.
```

> Paging and sorting options are also supported in `DatastoreTemplate` by supplying a `DatastoreQueryOptions` to `findAll`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paging and sorting options are also supported in the `DatastoreTemplate` by supplying a `DatastoreQueryOptions` to `findAll`.
```

Reviewer: I always think of the class, not an instance when referencing. "The DatastoreTemplate [class]" sounds ok to me.

Author: However "class" isn't here, and I don't think it's necessary to say that it is a class. 

I've been most comfortable and I think it's most natural to refer to classes without "the". For example when we talk about `Object`, `String`, or `Long`, we never say "the String class".

* `is null`

After writing a custom repository interface specifying just the signatures of these methods, implementations are generated for you and can be used with an auto-wired instance of the repository.

> Because of Cloud Datastore's requirement that explicitly selected fields must all appear in a composite index together, `find` name-based query methods are run as `SELECT *`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud Datastore requires that explicitly selected fields must all appear in a composite index together. To avoid this restriction, name-based query `find` methods are run as `SELECT *`.
```

Author: Hmmm I'm not sure this is better.

==== Projections

Spring Data Cloud Datastore supports {spring-data-commons-ref}/#projections[projections]. You can define projection interfaces based on domain types and add query methods that return them in your repository:

[source, java]
----
public interface TradeProjection {

	String getAction();

	@Value("#{target.symbol + ' ' + target.action}")
	String getSymbolAndAction();
}

public interface TradeRepository extends DatastoreRepository<Trade, Key> {

	List<Trade> findByTraderId(String traderId);

	List<TradeProjection> findByAction(String action);

	@Query("SELECT action, symbol FROM trades WHERE action = @action")
	List<TradeProjection> findByQuery(String action);
}
----

Projections can be provided by name-convention-based query methods as well as by custom SQL queries.

> If using custom SQL queries, you can further restrict the fields retrieved from Datastore to just those required by the projection.

Reviewer 2: Mention that the whole Datastore Entity is retrieved in case of queries based on method name.

==== Projections

Spring Data Cloud Datastore supports {spring-data-commons-ref}/#projections[projections]. You can define projection interfaces based on domain types and add query methods that return them in your repository:

[source, java]
----
public interface TradeProjection {

	String getAction();

	@Value("#{target.symbol + ' ' + target.action}")
	String getSymbolAndAction();
}

public interface TradeRepository extends DatastoreRepository<Trade, Key> {

	List<Trade> findByTraderId(String traderId);

	List<TradeProjection> findByAction(String action);

	@Query("SELECT action, symbol FROM trades WHERE action = @action")
	List<TradeProjection> findByQuery(String action);
}
----

Projections can be provided by name-convention-based query methods as well as by custom GQL queries.

> If using custom GQL queries, you can further restrict the fields retrieved from Datastore to just those required by the projection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using custom GQL queries, you can further restrict the fields retrieved from Cloud Datastore to just those required by the projection.
```

However, custom select statements (those not using `SELECT *`) require composite indexes containing the selected fields.

Properties of projection types defined using SpEL use the fixed name `target` for the underlying domain object.

> As a result accessing underlying properties take the form `target.<property-name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, accessing underlying properties take the form `target.<property-name>`.
```
